It's hard to save money as a teenager, particularly when you have friends who are out on weekend trips and buying new clothes. 
The article is part of a series where adolescents are taught basic personal finance concepts. 
At Money Under 30 we agree that being financially responsible is never too early; we hope this series will be a good starting point.
You have big dreams as a kid, whether it's a new iPhone, the trip you've set your sights on, or bigger aspirations like buying your first car. 
Your parents may help you get some of these things along the way but saving your own money toward these goals makes it more satisfying to achieve them.
Start a savings account As young YouTube fans like Emily Wass will tell you, if you're not earning much, you might feel conflicted or unmotivated to put money into your savings account but it can benefit no matter if this is $10 or $100.
Set saving goals and stick to them, whether it's for each day, week or month. 
A savings Calculator will give you an indication of how long your target will take.
Quick savings tracker Investment growth and interest savings. 
See how much you can save: Calculate by: Monthly Deposit savings Target Once you've set targets, put the money you're planning to save into your account for that time. 
That will help to reduce any spending pressure. 
When you work part-time in your local supermarket, or just get a bonus, set some of it aside.
Contributing regularly to your account and meeting the goals provides sound financial discipline and encourages better spending habits.
For starters saving with Marcus would be the perfect bank.
They currently offer an APY of 225% which is in the top 1% of all national banks and there is no minimum deposit needed to open the account. 
Beyond savings, Marcus also has a range of available CD's designed to get you everywhere you need to go.
There are no monthly maintenance costs for the Marcus savings account and your account balance will only rise.
Separate spending money from savings Although you've stashed the money you've made on a savings account, maybe you're tempted to think if you've run out of cash right? No — touche it not!
Your investments are for needs and emergencies, not for more simple expenses such as food, etc. 
The smart thing you have to do is have a check or "transaction account"wink and a direct deposit account that you can access on request. 
If you don't want to keep too much cash on you, you can always start a student checking account and put some of your money in it.
That way, there won't be any tension with your goals.
savings accounts are designed for the long haul when account reviews tackle your everyday needs.
Keep track of your purchases By keeping a record of your purchases you can save money better. 
That way you've got a record of your expenses and you know if you've spent more than you should. 
Save all your receipts, and write down your total expenditure.
Label your entries also, and split your money into sections, that is your income and expenses. 
If there's cash for one cause or another that you can't track, make a note of it and even write small reviews of the items you've bought.
When you see some of the figures besides things you've ordered, you may realize just how dumb it was. 
Whether it's a bad film you've watched, or a party that has bored you to death, your spending is more likely to be watchful and cautious.
If you're not writing stuff down in the old-school process, you should look at apps like YNAB, Good Budget and Mint to track your spending.
For example, Mint lets you see how much you're spending and saving through charts, graphs, and other graphic illustrations. 
It will also allow you to track your account balance and even break down your spending into categories.
You can even use some of the tools provided by the online programs that are your own bank. 
Nigeria’s pension fund investors and pension savers should be worried in 2020. On average, the RSA pension fund category netted about 13% return in 2019, so did the Retiree savings Account category of pension funds.
While that is a commendable performance in a year where the Nigeria Allshare index lost 16% of its value, that same feat may not be repeated in 2020. 
FALLING INTEREST RATES
One thing that characterized the Nigerian Economy and Nigerian capital market in 2019 was the fast decline in yield (interest rates) towards the end of the year.
The Nigerian 10-year Bond Yield, which opened year 2019 at 15%, is poised to close the year at around 11% or less and other tenors are currently trending at single-digit interest rates.
Nigerian Treasury bills and Commercial Papers are even worse. 
According to the latest FMDQ Daily Quotation List, a Commercial Paper with 191 days to maturity traded at 6.19% while one with 282 days to maturity traded at 5%. 
A case of inverted yield.
Analysis of the most recent Pension Assets Report released by the Nigeria Pension Commission shows that 46.66% of total pension asset is invested in FGN Bonds, while 22.82% is invested in Treasury Bills; instruments that are directly impacted by trends in interest rate.
Lower interest rates mean lower returns from such investment types. 
Though the coupon rates on FGN bonds that the pension funds are already invested in will not change, (unless bond issuers decide to refinance such bonds), the pension funds will be adversely affected if majority of the bonds mature in 2020.
In that case, pension funds will have to face the reinvestment risk of finding bonds with similar coupons. 
A tall order indeed. Unfortunately, the inverse relationship between bond prices and interest rate will mean that at the point of reinvestment, such bonds will cost more to buy.
With Treasury Bills and Commercial Papers being short-dated instruments, the effect of falling interest rates will be felt more in those types of instruments as they are prone to mature within the year under the current low-interest-rate regime.
RISING INFLATION
One statistic that means a lot to retirees and pension plan savers is real rate of return. Real rate of return is the nominal rate of return less inflation.
In a layman’s language, it is the rate of return that shows what your investment return can purchase, given current price levels.
With inflation inching upwards in Nigeria, and interest rates going the opposite way, pension plan savers may be subjected to double “punishment” or double jeopardy. 
According to economists, falling interest rates are prone to causing inflation.
If that happens, pension plan savers may be in for the worse.
WHAT TO DO TO REMAIN WITHIN PLAN
In a situation like this, those saving for retirement should think of what to do to remain within their planned retirement objectives. There are two broad sources of pension plan assets: contributions and income.
Those two combine to lead to increase in pension assets. 
When one falls, the other has to increase, otherwise, pension assets will decrease.
Therefore, to maintain your retirement savings objective in light of the potential for a decrease in income or return, you have to increase your monthly contribution.
I did a piece, not too long ago, on the need for additional voluntary contribution; now is the time to embark on that if you do not want to be caught “pants down” with some deficit in your retirement savings account balance in 2020 and beyond. 
To double your money in 10 years, for example, you need about an average annual return of 7%. As the rate of return decreases, so does the number of years required to double your money increase, if you do not increase the contribution.
This is why you should make voluntary contributions to your pension fund.
EUROBOND MUTUAL FUNDS TO THE RESCUE
Pension Plan Managers should go to work by looking for alternative sources that can help increase returns for their clients and investors, as long as it is within the regulatory permission granted them by the Pension Reform Act of 2004, or the like.
One of such investments is Eurobonds or Dollar denominated mutual funds.
Though return on those mutual funds is driven by interest rate, they have the potential to insulate the effects of falling interest with changes in exchange rate.
With the Naira slightly depreciating against the dollar continuously, investing in Eurobond mutual funds may be a way to stay afloat.
Most banks will categorize the expenses and show them in easy-to-read charts and graphs. 
It gives you the opportunity to see your bank account in real time and get a better idea of how much money you spend.
However, I'm going to warn you, being less involved with your money (pun intended) means you're less attached to it — and so you could spend more.
In taking the time to carefully track receipts and write down transactions, you'll be well aware where all of your dollars are going and will end up being more careful about your spending.
Ask your parents Yes, you can hear the groan all-around while you are looking at this suggestion. 
Nevertheless, when trying to save a few bucks, it is not a bad thing to ask your parents for help.
If you add something to your account, you will ask your parents to match your weekly or monthly savings. 
You can ask them to donate $100 at the month-end if you put aside $25 a week for the month and show your parents that you've stuck to that goal.
Once you have shown them you are serious about putting money aside, they will reach out and support. 
Asking them isn't ashamed.
Do housework If you're too proud to ask for help from your parents, and want to turn something you don't like into a money maker, offer to do more housework for more money. 
Fold sheets, wash dishes, vacuum, all those stuff that you don't really like to do. 
You can also take a regular look at your little brother or sister.
Use your student ID Another concept that you may not have thought much about, your student ID can be so much more than just a card with a photo of yourself that is less than flattering. 
It can get you up to 10 per cent off at Urban Outfitters, Charlotte Russe, and some of your other favorite stores, as Seventeen Magazine suggests.
Using all the savings you can make it much easier to save and make sure you can put some of what you're doing in a safe place until you need it. 
It would also be a good idea to ask anywhere you go about the student discounts and offers. 
Many businesses may not advertise their student discounts freely but if you inquire, they would be more than happy to provide them.
Spend smart If you're investing it doesn't mean you have to spend on your own. 
Talk of sharing expenses wherever you can with your friends or family, whether on newspapers, holidays, books etc. 
Capitalize on any desires you share with individuals by dividing the items you want each.
Try collecting as many coupons and gift cards as you can too. 
If the gift cards you get are for items you do not want to purchase, feel free to re-sell them. 
Gift marketplaces such as Raise will be happy to flip them at a rate.
Get a summer job If you're old enough, having a summer job will help save some extra cash if need be.
If during your summer vacation you have no significant plans why not make money? This stops you from making regrettable choices with whatever budget you may have or with little income. 
Plus, it allows you to keep youraccount(s) replenished until it's time to hit the books again.
Summer jobs are a perfect opportunity to gain experience too. 
In the future they will help you get better jobs that offer higher salaries.
Overview It's hard to save money as a teenager particularly if you haven't developed the skills to make it into the working world. 
It's also difficult when you have friends who are out on weekend trips buying new clothes. 
But who said you need a wealth of experience in order to bring fortune?
Improvising helps, as well as keeping track of how much you spend on distinct records. 
There are also benefits you can use to your benefit as a student, apps to help you manage your accounts, and you can even turn your hobbies into revenue-makers.
Investing in Nigeria is not as difficult as people think it is. 
There are so many investment opportunities in Nigeria.
However, one has to be careful when considering investment options in Nigeria so that one will not be scammed.
Wondering why you should sign up on Fundall if you want to invest in Nigeria? let me get to it, Fundall is a digital platform that uses behavioural economics and artificial intelligence to help people manage and grow their wealth. 
On the Fundall platform, you get access to smart savings, loans, a Lifestyle card, you get a personalized financial guide based on your profile you also get access to several other premium financial services. 
Feel free to sign up on fundall
The idea of investing is exciting to most people. 
They want to dig in, and start making some money. 
Unfortunately, many new investors often make huge mistakes when they start out.
Instead of having a healthy amount of money saved for a rainy day, new investors often take whatever excess cash they have and immediately place it all in whatever investment they wish to make. 
If an emergency occurs, they would not be able to cater for the emergency.
Before making any huge investment, make sure you have enough savings. 
You might now ask yourself - how much money should I have in my emergency fund before taking this big investment. 
It depends on a number of factors: Your current monthly spend, your estimated future spend, your chances of getting income etc.
People are generally advised to have at least 4 months spend in their emergency savings.