A business accountant in Melbourne mainly focuses on the needs of the organization rather than external accounting standards.
The management generally hires them for maintaining financial records. 
They advise in other aspects that allow the management in decision-making and performance evaluation.
People generally confuse these accountants with financial experts (who focus on meeting external standards).
The business accountants make estimates and trends that can be helpful in making life-changing decisions. 
They would be handling various aspects of the organization like setting up and maintaining SMSF.
To understand the functioning of a business bookkeeping expert better, the list of activities handled by this professional are:
Tax planning: The experience of the experts would help them to devise plans that could profit the organisation. 
They would also take care that the company needs to pay a minimum amount to the government in the form of taxes.
Developing growth and profit strategies: the professionals would be able to point out the areas that need more concentration that could help an organization grow better and enjoy more profits. 
The goals set by them would aid in personal, professional and financial growth. 
They would keep a check all the time, to inform the owners and the management when they are going out of track.
Cash flow: The experts know the importance of cash flow. 
They would be able to predict the effect of strategies on cash flow. 
They would be able to suggest measures to handle the cash crunch and save the business.
Manage debt: The accountant would be able to suggest the least expensive borrowing method along with repayment flexibility and low interest. 
They would see that the finances are invested in proper areas so that the company would not face any cash crunch and would further need no debts.
These are the few important functions of a financial expert. 
They could play a major role in the making of a company. 
It is important for one to choose an experienced and renowned professional in the field.